spaghetti and meatballs,In a large pot of boiling salted water, cook spaghetti according to package instructions,Drain,In a large bowl, combine beef with bread crumbs, parsley, Parmesan, egg, garlic, 1 teaspoon salt, and red pepper flakes. Mix until just combined then form into 16 balls,In a large pot over medium heat, heat oil. Add meatballs and cook, turning occasionally, until browned on all sides, about 10 minutes. Transfer meatballs to a plate,Add onion to pot and cook until soft, 5 minutes. Add crushed tomatoes and bay leaf. Season with salt and pepper and bring to a simmer. Return meatballs to pot and cover. Simmer until sauce has thickened, 8 to 10 minutes,Serve pasta with a healthy scoop of meatballs and sauce. Top with Parmesan before serving.
kakro,Peel the plantains and place them in a bowl,Mash them with a fork until obtaining a lumpy mixture,Add the onion, ginger, salt, cayenne pepper and mix well with a spatula,Add the flour and mix well,In a deep skillet, heat a large volume of oil over medium heat,Using a spoon, take some of the dough and dip in hot oil,Fry on both sides until golden brown,Place kakro as you go on a sheet of paper towel to remove excess oil,Serve hot or warm.
Egusi soup,Cut the meat and tripe into bite-sized chunks and place into a pot. Add some of the onions and ginger to the meat, just enough to help with the aroma. Add a bouillon cube, top with water and braise until tender. Cook for up to an hour to ensure the tripe is tender,Prepare the stock fish by soaking it in boiling water until the flesh is soft enough to debone,Place a large pot on the stove and heat up the palm oil. Fry the rest of the onions in the oil until caramelized,Blend the scotch bonnet, ginger and garlic with the tomatoes in a food processor. Liquidize the ingredients until smooth then pour them into the pot,Cook them for 10 to 15 minutes until the sauce has reduced and thickened,Add enough water into the egusi to form a thick paste. Start with half a cup (120 ml) of water, and up to a cup (250 ml) of water for the egusi to be smoother in the soup,Drop the egusi into the soup either in balls or simply pour it in to steam. Cover the pot, reduce the heat and simmer for about 15 minutes,Add the cooked meat, stock fish and crayfish powder (optional),Chop the spinach and introduce it into the stew gradually until it is softened and stirred in well,Give the pot a stir then allow to simmer for a further 10 minutes,Check the soup for seasoning. Serve with a side of pounded yam or semolina shaped into balls. The egusi soup can also be served with rice.
Angwa Mo,Wash rice, drain and dry,In a pot, heat the oil and fry the chopped onions in hot oil until golden brown,Take half of the onion and set aside,Add the salted beef and mix well,Add rice and fry over medium heat for about 2 minutes, stirring constantly,Add the bouillon cube and stir. Add the hot pepper and mix,Add the water and stir well. Cook for 5 minutes,Add the remaining onion and cook again for 5 minutes,Remove from heat,Cover and let stand 5 minutes before serving,omo tuo,Rinse the rice to remove excess starch. This is optional as the starch encourages the stickiness of the rice,Place the rice, salt and water in a pot and bring to a boil,Turn the heat down to medium and allow the rice to steam in the pot, until most of the water is absorbed,Using a sturdy wooden spoon, pound the rice using a mash and fold method. Bring the rice toward the side of the pot, then turn over. Repeat until the rice is mushy and glutinous,To serve, scoop the desired amount into a wet bowl and swirl around until balls are formed,Omu tuo may be served with any type of soup but is it traditional to serve it on a Sunday with peanut soup stew or palm nut soup.
omo tuo,Rinse the rice to remove excess starch,This is optional as the starch encourages the stickiness of the rice,Place the rice, salt and water in a pot and bring to a boil,Turn the heat down to medium and allow the rice to steam in the pot, until most of the water is absorbed,Using a sturdy wooden spoon, pound the rice using a mash and fold method. Bring the rice toward the side of the pot, then turn over. Repeat until the rice is mushy and glutinous,To serve, scoop the desired amount into a wet bowl and swirl around until balls are formed,Omu tuo may be served with any type of soup but is it traditional to serve it on a Sunday with peanut soup stew or palm nut soup.
tatale,Slice the plantains, place in a large bowl and immediately sprinkle with lemon juice.With a fork, mash the plantains and add the onion and ginger.Add the corn flour, chilli and salt and mix well with a wooden spoon.In a deep skillet, heat a large amount of vegetable oil over medium heat.Maintain the temperature of the oil around 340 F (175 C) during frying.Form balls the size of a ping pong ball, flatten them slightly and fry on both sides until they are golden brown.
waakye,Put the dried leaves of millet in 1 quart (1l) of boiling water for 15 minutes until the water is well colored. Remove the waakye leaves and stir.Rinse the rice in water a couple times.In a pot, pour 2 cans of beans (without the water) and the rice.Pour the colored water on the rice and beans. Add water if necessary.Cover and cook for 15 minutes or until the rice is cooked and has absorbed all the water. Season with salt.
okro stew,Cut the stewing beef into bite sized chunks and place into a pot. Chop ¾ of the first onion and add it to the beef. Reserve the other ¼ onion for the sauce.Add the kpakposhito to the pot, whole.Add a cube of beef or chicken stock seasoning, top with water and braise until tender. Cooking time depends on the type of stewing beef used. While the beef is cooking, prepare the other ingredients as follows.Finely chop the second whole onion. Place a large pot on the stove and heat up the palm oil. Fry the onions in the oil until they just begin to caramelize.Add the diced ginger to the pot and fry for about 1 minute, just before adding the tomatoes.Chop the tomatoes into small chunks and place them into a blender or food processor. Add the ginger to the tomatoes.Add the remaining onion to the blender.Add the desired amount of scotch bonnet peppers.Pulse or liquidize the ingredients until smooth.Pour the mixture over the caramelized onions and allow the sauce to cook down and thicken. This should take 10 minutes, as oil begins to rise to the top. Stir regularly to prevent burning.Quarter the okra pods, then chop them into ¼-inch (5 mm) thin slices. Set aside.Break the smoked mackerel into chunks and add to the stew (optional). Add a little more water and allow to simmer for 5 minutes to allow the flavors to infuse into the sauce.Add the chopped okra into the stew and stir. A little more water may be added to encourage the okra to cook well. The presence of tomatoes in the stew slows down the sliming process. Simmer for 10 minutes.Add the cooked beef along with the stock created during the braising process and stir to incorporate into the stew. Simmer for 5 minutes.
rice water,Wash the rice until the water is clear, then drain.Place the rice in a bowl and add 5 cups (1,2 l) of water.Cook the rice until tender, about 15 minutes. Use more water, if necessary, to obtain a soft and sticky rice.Add a pinch of salt.Using the flat side of a wooden spoon, crush the rice until it is soft and flattens into a ball.Add boiling water to soften it to the desired thickness and consistency.Serve the hot rice water with a pinch of nutmeg, evaporated milk, sugar (or honey), toasted nuts and coconut flakes or other ingredients of your choice.
bofrot,In a large bowl of water, mix 1 tablespoon caster sugar, ½ cup (100 ml) water, and the yeast.Let the yeast foam for 15 minutes.In the bowl of a stand mixer, add the flour, nutmeg and remaining sugar.Mix and dig a well in the center.Pour the mixture of water, sugar and yeast in the center of this well.Mix with the flat beater, adding the remaining water gradually. Knead for about 4 minutes, or until the mixture is stretchy and homogeneous.Add the salt and knead again for 2 minutes.Cover the dough and let it rise for 2h30, at room temperature and away from drafts.In a deep skillet, heat a large volume of oil over medium heat.Maintain the temperature of the oil at around 340 F / 175 C during frying.To form the donut balls, dip the hand in cold water, hold a piece of dough in the hand. Press it between the thumb and forefinger, and let a small ball of dough slowly drop in the hot oil .Renew the process until all the dough is used.It is very important to soak your hand regularly in cold water before forming new balls.Deep-fry the donuts on both sides until golden brown.
jollof rice,Blend the garlic, onion, ginger, stock cube and chili peppers, with 3 cups of water.Put the chicken pieces in a large pot, and pour the mixture on top. Stir, add water to cover the chicken if necessary. Cover and cook on medium/low for 30 minutes.Heat oil in a non-stick pan and fry the sliced onions for 8-10 minutes until soft and golden brown.Add the tomato paste and continue cooking while stirring for 5 minutes.In the meantime, remove the chicken from the pot, and drain the stock into the blender.Add the tomato puree, 1 onion, and 2 Scotch bonnet peppers and blend to obtain a smooth consistency.Add this mixture to the pan with the onions and tomato sauce, and mix. Add the vegetables and simmer for about 15 minutes.Add the bay leaves and curry powder. Add the rice to the sauce and stir. Add salt to taste. Cover and simmer on a low heat till rice is fully cooked, about 20 minutes.In the meantime, fry the boiled chicken in a saucepan with 3 tablespoons of vegetable oil, to give them some color.Serve the rice with the chicken, as well as fried plantains or a green leaf salad on the side.
